Title:    Monochrome Bitmap to Code Converter
Version:  0.1
Date:     April 24 2013
Author:   Marv aka emgoz

_______________________________________________________________________________


Discription:

This application will convert a monochrome Windows bitmap file to an C++ array,
ready to paste into your code. It features a invert function, a button to copy
the output to Windows' clipboard and displays the dimension of the graphic.

The program was developed for my Arduino Buffer Graphics library which features
a bitmap function. Using this application, it is really simple to insert static
graphics files in your code.

_______________________________________________________________________________


How to use:

The use of the application is meant to be a simple as possible. By clicking on
the "Browse" button, a dialog opens to select a file on your computer. The file
has to have the extension .bmp (bitmap), other files won't be accepted. Also,
your file must have only 2 colors (monochrome) otherwise an error will occur.

Once you have selected a file, click "Open". A progress indicator bar shows up
while the file is being processed. Large bitmap files will take significantly
longer to progress than smaller ones, up to several minutes.

When the processing is finished, the c++ array for your bitmap is outputted in
the large editable area of the application window. You may adjust the size of
the window so that the code fits nicely in the box.
The program names the array automaticly like the file you converted and
calculates its size (number of bytes taken).
The number of pixels the bitmap has is shown in the corresponding field above.

You are given the "Invert" option, which will turn all black pixels to '1's and
all white pixels to '0's. You can input any c++ hex array in the edit box and
invert it afterwards, this function isn't limited to code generated by the
program.

With the "Copy to Clipboard" button, you can copy the text in the output field
automatically to the Clipboard. You can you easily paste the array into your
source code using [Ctrl] + [V] at the desired location.

_______________________________________________________________________________


How to create monochrome bitmaps:

The easiest way to create a monochrome bitmap file is Microsoft Paint. Just
open, import or draw a picture. Shrink down the canvas as much as possible,
then select "Monochrome" resp. "Black / White" under "Preferences".
Save the graphic as "Monochrome bitmap *.bmp" in the desired folder.




